Below is the 2-page PDF that auditor Monica Houston advised the city, in a July 19 memo, not to use the Meyers Nave law firm for eminent domain legal services for the Highway 132 realignment.
In her memo to city Audit Committee members, Houston said it could expose the city to risk of fraud, waste and abuse.
$20 million in legal fees… $9 million to city attorney’s firm.
The Modesto City Council hired more than they bargained for in their selection of Monica Houston as the city auditor because she is competent, ethical, and courageous.
The council and the City Attorney are searching for ways to get rid of her.
Mayor Sabatino demands that the California State Bar investigate City Attorney Adam Lindgren to determine how Modesto has paid over $20 million in legal since 2014.
Mayor Sabatino holds Mayor Ted Brandvold and Council accountable for covering up illegal conduct and mass conflicts of interest in creating a dysfunctional government.
On October 10th the Bee reported Brandvold said, “Our city is broken, and we must take appropriate steps to fix it".
Brandvold has George Petrulakis as his chief of staff.
And they call this democracy…a history lesson.
Here is the history of Stanislaus Co. Sheriffs “elections”.
Retiring Sheriff Dan Kelsey endorsed Lynn Wood for Sheriff and he wins.
Lynn Wood retired early and appointed Fred Woods interim Sheriff. Fred Woods then ran as incumbent Sheriff and won.
Fred Woods retired early and appointed Jim Trevena interim Sheriff. Jim Trevena then ran as incumbent Sheriff and won.
Jim Trevena retired and endorsed Les Weidman who ran for Sheriff and Weidman won.
Les Weidman retired and endorsed Adam Christianson and he won.
Adam Christianson retires endorses Jeff Dirkse and he wins.
In an effort to help sort out the individuals involved with the current dysfunctional environment within the City Council, we have assembled a list of the parties involved.
Monica Houston was the chief audit officer for the South Carolina Retirement System Investment Commission for nearly six years. She is a certified public accountant and a certified fraud examiner.
Hired 6 months ago by the City.
New City auditor who Houston has been the ongoing subject of job evaluations since early August, the first coming just three days after she requested information regarding a large city project. Multiple citizens and Council Member came to her defense.
Modesto Council member Kristi Ah You  has publicly claimed the job evaluations of the new City auditor were illegal
Modesto Council member Kristi Ah You said in an open council meeting that the overspending “were on Joe Lopez’s watch
Ted Brandvold said in an open meeting “that city staff falsified documents and that City Manager Joe Lopez waited days before informing him of a Stanislaus County Civil Grand Jury investigation into a city purchasing scandal that involved about $16 million in over-spending.
Ted Brandvold said in an open council that “Our city is broken, and we must take appropriate steps to fix it,” the mayor said during the meeting.
Doug Ridenhour and Jenny Kenoyer asked for an investigation into Kristi Ah You’s allegations.
Doug Ridenhour asked for an investigation into the allegations the mayor made, which included claims that city staffers falsified documents that could affect future funding from U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Kenoyer said the mayor made “severe allegations” against people who sit on the council dais, and the city needs to investigate the allegations made against the city manager. She said the over-spending is an old issue, and she questioned the mayor’s motives for discussing it Tuesday
Said in an open council meeting that the grand jury had asked for documents to investigate the over-spending in a letter to the city manager.
Kenoyer suggested that the City had falsified documents
Brandvold questioned why Lopez waited a few days before informing him of the letter from the Grand Jury.
Interim City Manager Joe Lopez for 13 months until he was hired full time
Joe Lopez said in response to the mayors questioning as to the delay in the “grand Jury letter” that the grand jury had asked for documents to investigate the over-spending in a letter to the city manager.
Lopez said the letter was marked confidential, so he first asked the city attorney what he should do before informing the council. He said he didn’t want to harm the integrity of the grand jury’s investigation
Concerned Citizens that addressed the Council
The residents said Houston was more than qualified to uncover inefficiencies in city operations. They asked the City Council why the auditor’s performance coming into question only several months after she had been hired.
Civil Grand Jury.
The Civil Grand Jury is empowered to investigate complaints from citizens, civic groups, government employees and others about the operations of County and City governments and the conduct of their officers and employees. The Civil Grand Jury may also investigate complaints within special districts and school districts.
The Grand Jury is the guardian of public trust in local government.
This is known as the “Civil Watchdog” function.
The Grand Jury exists to assure honest and efficient government.
Criminal indictments are now handled solely by the Criminal Grand Jury.
The creation of a two-grand-jury system enables the Civil Grand Jury more time to focus on its oversight function.
Committees are formed to study citizen complaints. The Grand Jury itself also selects additional areas that it wishes to study/investigate.
At the end of the fiscal term on June 30th, the Grand Jury publishes its findings, conclusions and recommendations in a Final Report which is distributed to public officials, libraries and the press.
Agencies or departments, which are the subjects of investigations, are required to respond to the findings and recommendations within 90 days.
The selection of the Civil Grand Jury is a process directed by the presiding judge of the Superior Court and involves names which have been randomly selected from the master jury pool and names which have been submitted by community leaders.
A judge on Wednesday denied a defense motion to remove the Stanislaus County District Attorney’s Office from a case against a Modesto bail bonds business owner accused of extortion.
Frank Carson, Aleo John Pontillo’s attorney, claimed that prosecutors focused an investigation on his client to divert attention from wrongdoing within the District Attorney’s Office.
Carson alleged that District Attorney Birgit Fladager was afraid of negative publicity and persuaded federal authorities to halt their probe of a high-ranking investigator in her office.
Prosecutors said Carson’s allegations had no supporting evidence and were an attempt to influence the June 3 election. When Carson filed his recusal motion, he was running for district attorney against Fladager, who was re-elected to a third term last week.
The defense attorney argued that Pontillo, owner of AJ’s Bail Bonds, can’t receive a fair trial because prosecutors redirected their focus to conceal Fladager intervening in a federal investigation of one of her investigators.
The FBI and the Stanislaus County Sheriff’s Department conducted a probe into Aaron Gallagher, who was then an investigator for the District Attorney’s Office.
Investigators were trying to determine whether Gallagher tipped off David Nelson, who was the subject of drug raid in a methamphetamine sales investigation. Nelson was a longtime informant for Gallagher and worked at AJ’s Bail Bonds.
After federal and state prosecutors refused to prosecute Gallagher, Fladager fired the investigator.
In a filed response to the defense motion, Chief Deputy District Attorney Dave Harris wrote that the simplest way to keep the Nelson and Gallagher connection a secret would have been to not prosecute Pontillo.
Harris and Fladager denied there was a cover-up in the court documents.
Superior Court Judge Scott Steffen said in court Wednesday that there were some “intriguing ties” between the District Attorney’s Office and some of the witnesses in Pontillo’s case.
But he didn’t find any grounds to remove Fladager’s office from the case. The judge agreed with the prosecutors, saying the District Attorney’s Office could have chosen not to prosecute Pontillo if it wanted to cover up the Gallagher investigation.
Pontillo’s trial is scheduled to start July 14. The defendant has been charged with conspiracy to kidnap for the purpose of extortion, conspiracy to commit grand theft and violating state insurance regulations.
His co-defendants, Janelle Marie Llorens and Mark David Davis, are scheduled to return to court June 30 for a pretrial hearing.
Stanislaus County District Attorney Birgit Fladager is the subject of an ongoing federal criminal investigation, criminal defense attorney and DA candidate Frank Carson claims.
The allegation came during a press conference held in Modesto’s Tenth Street Place Thursday night. Carson says Fladager attempted to cover up the fact that one of her investigators provided an informant with weapons taken from federal custody, and then told the informant of an impending federal search.
Fladager said the claims are a “Flat out lie.
According to Carson, Aaron Gallagher, who was then a Stanislaus County District Attorney investigator, tipped off an informant of an impending federal weapons and drug search in 2008.
The DA’s office had been notified of the search as a courtesy, Carson said.
Gallagher allegedly provided those weapons, comprising of one or more firearms, to the informant. According to Carson, Gallagher stole the weapons from federal custody.
Because of Gallagher’s tip, the informant allegedly had time to hide the weapons and drugs. Carson said the federal investigators were “very upset” they did not find the weapons and drugs they were looking for.
Regardless, the federal investigators launched an investigation into the informant, as he allegedly sold drugs to undercover agents in the past.
During a debriefing, the informant allegedly admitted that Gallagher had given him firearms taken from federal custody, and that Gallagher had tipped him of the impending search.
“This is verified by a debriefing transcript I have personally read,” Carson said. He said he would provide TurlockCityNews.com with a copy of the transcript, but it was not immediately available.
According to Carson, Fladager then “headed off” a federal investigation, intervening on Gallagher’s behalf. Fladager allegedly said that a federal investigation would devastate the District Attorney’s Office.
Fladager then allegedly contacted the the Modesto Police Department, asking them to conduct an independent investigation.
It allegedly declined. She turned to the Stanislaus County Sheriff’s Department, but it, too, allegedly declined.
Ultimately, the California State University, Stanislaus Police Department agreed to perform an independent investigation, Carson said.
Gallagher was eventually released by the DA’s office in 2010, nearly two years after the alleged incident. He never faced any charges due to Fladager’s cover-up, Carson said.
“A bad apple is possible in any organization,” Carson said. “But sometimes the whole barrel is rotten.”
Carson also says Fladager should have known of Gallagher’s issues before the incident occurred.
A March 31, 1999 Modesto Bee article alleges that Gallagher took part in the “gungate” of the late 90s, when MPD officers allegedly took more than 100 handguns from custody for their own use.
Per the article, Gallagher allegedly gave a 9mm Beretta handgun to a man as a gift, who then lost the handgun. It was later recovered by the Sacramento Police Department.
Gallagher had been employed by the District Attorney’s Office since 1999. Fladager took office in 2008.
Federal investigators are continuing to work on the case, Carson said.
Carmen Sabatino, a former Modesto mayor who is backing the “Recall Birgit Fladager” signs seen about town, says that he and Carson are aware of more serious allegations facing Fladager as well.
Those allegations will be revealed at a later date, said Sabatino.
Sabatino was previously prosecuted by Fladager for 10 felonies alleging that, while mayor, he failed to disclose loans and gifts, employed city staff for personal concerns, and voted on issues where he had financial conflicts of interest. The case ended in a mistrial, after jurors deadlocked when some said there was not enough evidence to convict Sabatino. Carson served as Sabatino’s defense attorney during that trial.
Your frustrated rant of 2001 about my motivations as Mayor of Modesto remains a mystery.
Portion of City Council Minutes of July 17, 2001 by Mike Zagaris,
“Your remarks in the newspaper, which by the way, only serve to confirm comments that you made to other parties who called me and indicated what your motivations were, serve to me as a sad reflection of your use of your power as the mayor of this community to take out your personal vendettas against individual citizens. I have never wanted to be your enemy. I don’t want to be your enemy now. But if you choose to engrave my name on the granite list of enemies you have, I will find myself along with my deceased brother, Steve, along with County Council Krausnik, (sic) along with Supervisor Simon, and along with so many others a worthy crowd.”
Specifically, what act as Mayor did your group perceive as a “personal vendetta” that justified an 18 year vendetta that was organized and paid for by you, George Petrulakis, Jim DeMartini, and many others who have “engraved their name on a granite list”.
Through the years, I have accepted your challenge because the truth, and moral values, are necessary for human dignity.
The history of corruption that has been imposed on this community is being written and you will not like your chapter.
I would like to report on how much Roger Brown was paid and report on former Attorney General Bill Lockyer. Your input and cooperation is welcome at any time.
Who paid for the Zagaris dossier?
Probe began with Sonora attorney
By AMY LINDBLOM, the Union Democrat
Modesto’s mayor is the subject of state Attorney General’s Office and Stanislaus County District Attorney’s Office investigations in part because questions raised by a Sonora attorney.
That lawyer, Roger Brown, and a client contend Modesto’s Carmen Sabatino violated the 1975 Public Reform Act by allegedly failing to disclose sources of income, loans and investment interests totaling about $3 million on state-required documents between 1999 and 2001.
In September, Brown met with four members of Attorney General Bill Lockyer’s staff and outlined the alleged wrongdoings in a 22-page report Brown wrote.
As a result, Sabatino re-elected last year is being investigated by both state and Stanislaus County prosecutors, plus the state Fair Political Practices Commission and the Internal Revenue Service.
Brown would not name the client who hired him to look into Sabatino’s doings but describes the client as a “public-spirited citizen.”
With clients throughout the state, Brown is one of 50 or so California attorneys who specialize in political law, and by his own claim, one of the few who do it well.
“California campaign finance laws are so terribly complicated, the penalties are too large, and the consequences too severe to not have a competent lawyer on your side,” Brown said.
Among clients he has defended are political powerhouses U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, former San Francisco mayor Frank Jordan, former state Superintendent of Public Instruction Bill Hoenig and one-time San Francisco mayoral candidate Angela Alioto.
Brown spent a decade as an enforcement attorney for the California Fair Political Practices Commission. For half that time, he was the chief enforcement attorney
He joined the FPPC three years after the Political Reform Act was passed by California voters.
While at the FPPC, he prosecuted Republican Congressman John Doolittle, who once represented Tuolumne County, and won.
City of Modesto refuses to comply with Public Records request – censors documents requested by Back Story News
It is tough to know where to start.  We have completed a thorough review of documents surrounding the recent HUD/CDBG scandal at the city of Modesto.  We use the word “thorough” loosely as so many innocuous paragraphs and entire pages are blacked out for no reason (other than secrecy).   What is revealing is that the City of Modesto inadvertently released two versions of the same document.  One was redacted and one was censored.  See below:



Documents reviewed
We did a public records request of documents relating to the HUD/CDBG issues between 1/21/17 and 5/31/2018.    One document we were able to gather from the council packet regarding the overspending crisis (pacific management groups 1/23/18).   Unfortunately the majority of the docs are similarly entirely blacked out.   The one document from HUD is public record and is uncensored.  A synopsis of what HUD found was:

What are CDBG HUD Funds?

The City of Modesto, CA, receives annual Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) entitlement allocation funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
HUD awards grants to Modesto to carry out a wide range of community development activities directed toward revitalizing neighborhoods, economic development, and providing improved community facilities and services.
provide benefit to low- and moderate-income persons,
aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight, or
meet a need having a particular urgency
The City received the following CDBG program funds for its fiscal years 2015 and 2016
2015: July 1, 2015 – June 30, 2016
$1,848,449
2016: July 1, 2016 – June 30, 2017
1,871,328
Total CDBG funds
3,719,777
City of Modesto’s HUD audit.

HUD audited the City of Modesto’s Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program.
They selected the City based on a hotline complaint
The objective of the audit was to determine whether the City used CDBG funds in accordance with HUD requirements, focusing on its rehabilitation activities.
What HUD Found

The City did not use CDBG funds in accordance with HUD requirements. Specifically, it
(1) did not follow HUD’s and its own requirements for its rental and homeowner rehabilitation projects,
(2) drew CDBG funds in advance,
(3) provided false information to HUD,
(4) spent HUD funds inefficiently,
(5) misclassified some delivery costs, and
(6) Did not include all recipients in its monitoring plan.
These conditions occurred because of
the City’s desire to show HUD that it was close to meeting timeliness requirements,
its disregard for HUD’s and its own requirements,
its lack of sufficient knowledge and capacity, and the failure of its policies and procedures to ensure that it monitored all of its recipients of CDBG funds
As a result, the City was unable to support that its use of more than $1.6 million in CDBG funds met HUD requirements, and it improperly used $257,737 for duplicate costs.
What and who is involved in trying to fixed Modesto’s broken system.
We did a public records request of documents relating to the HUD/CDBG issues between 1/21/17 and 5/31/2018.    A few observations:

Multiple companies, same billing consultant – Bob Dies:

Renne Sloan Holtzman Sakai
Pacific Management Group
Renne Sakai
Unable to find the contract or agreement or even a financial arraignment between the City and Pacific Management group – it should have been in the council packet.

With all these financial auditors and purchasing consultants, the City should soon be operating in correct, acceptable procedures.    What we will never know is what is behind the endless blocked out pages (violation of the spirit of true redaction procedures.)
BREAKING NEWS: 8-8-18 Birgit Fladager sworn in as President of California District Attorneys Association. All of Stanislaus County are counting on the fact that this will be the shortest reign of any president of the district attorneys Association.

Dump fladagar or experience more corruption, under handedness, vindictiveness, spite, malice and dishonesty. Her motto is “if I don’t like em, book em”. This is evidenced by the Carson trial. Don’t forget that fladagar has given orders that even though a defendant is factually innocent, new deputy DAs are ordered to go to trial with factually innocent people for practice.

So even if you are innocent, your life can be ruined by a corrupt Dist. Atty. who is losing all of her senior deputy district attorneys because of her is egregious and unethical mis-management of the District Attorney’s Office. She will order you maliciously prosecuted even though you are factually innocent. She should have been removed from office by the Board of Supervisors many years ago for prosecutorial misconduct and ruining innocent lives. She is a disgrace to honest and ethical district attorneys everywhere. And now they have elected her president of the DAs Association. But remember, this is the California DAs Association. AND WE ARE IN CALIFORNIA.

I feel that I like many other citizens in Stanislaus County exercising their First Amendment rights have a target on our backs. I am trusting God to protect me from being falsely accused of an offense I did not commit.

August 8, 2018 -“Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, children of all ages…”, this was the phrase that the circus ringmaster greeted the audiences at a circus with. I use it as my opening because I am once again going to be elucidating on this three ring circus and dog and pony show that the “FLADAGATOR” is persecuting and losing in the Frank Carson, et al case.

Much to the chagrin of several members of the District Attorney’s Office I will use a quote originating with Mark Twain: “The reports of my death are greatly exaggerated.”  So yes, I am back in full force and effect in an attempt to educate the public and any jury members that may be reading this, and I know some of you are. I had a couple of personal issues plus a death in the family that sidelined me from exposing the truth for a period of time.

Prior to embarking on my latest exposé of the unethical, immoral and biased actions by the District Attorney’s Office, I have seen recently several news articles where kamala harris is rearing her ugly head much like “Aunt Esther”, and I know you know who “Aunt Esther” is. harris (I know you remember that I refuse to capitalize the names of people I have absolutely zero respect for) has been trying to gain publicity and being the poster child of the demoRAT party, a jackass. She is succeeding. She is incompetent and worthless as you will see in the following paragraphs.

larry morse III and several of his crooked henchmen within the Merced County District Attorney’s Office also protect corrupt and dirty cops. Not only does Turd morse protect them so does a worthless piece of trash named kamala harris as mentioned in this excerpt from a commentary I wrote on January 25, 2017: “I can tell you from experience that when reporting nefarious and illegal activities by law enforcement, kamala harris who is worthless refused to investigate and prosecute a Merced County deputy sheriff that I proved filed a felony false police report. I sent that worthless witch documents and a video proving the deputy’s guilt. She refused to prosecute. I don’t know if the newly appointed Atty. Gen. xavier becerra will be any better but I am thinking of given him a try”. (Nevermind. He’s just another demoRAT liberal. I’m not going to waste my time.)

So now we progress to Stanislaus County District Attorney’s Office. As a mentioned in a couple of prior “S” Storm commentaries, trying to serve process on elected officials at the District Attorney’s Office, is like trying to nail Jell-O to the wall. But after I called chief deputy dave harris a cockroach for trying to avoid service of the subpoena, all of a sudden the Red Sea opened up and County Counsel accepted the subpoena.

Then when I went to serve the fladagator in her ivory tower, myself and Gene Forte were going to be thrown out of the lobby of the DA’s office and the guard stated they are going to call the police on orders from the upper floor. We told them to call the police and when we requested the name of the security guard who was throwing us out, he refused and the elevator doors opened like the gates of hell and a DA investigator told us that we would be advised later who would accept service.

It’s a good thing for sure that turd Dist. Atty.’s are elected rather than having to pass a knowledge test, background examination and a psychological examination. Merced and Stanislaus counties would not have the current District Attorney’s in office.

By the way, the fladagator and probably cockroach harris will be testifying sometime this week or the first part of next week in federal court in Fresno to try to defend the vicious assault and false arrest by one of Stanislaus County’s finest, Timothy Luke Schwartz on the person of Gene Forte.

Mr. Forte is the only person in the history of the United States to ever go into a federal court in Pro Se, acting as his own attorney and after an eight date jury trial, got a unanimous verdict against the former crooked mayor Tommy Jones, now indicted for bribery by a public official. He was awarded actual and punitive damages in excess of $17,000. I had the pleasure of sitting in federal court in Fresno and watching Tommy Jones tried to whine his way out of paying. Sorry Tommy, no luck. Ka ching, ka ching, let that cash register ring. Pony up Tommy. HAHAHA. Another crooked mayor bites the dust.

For you readers, this commentary is going to bounce around a little bit. Even though I have not been writing, I have obtained information about the proceedings from other sources.* ferreira called as one of her witnesses, Turlock police officer Kim Briggs. She had him all prepped up for what she thought would be slam-dunk testimony.

However upon questioning Officer Briggs, he was having some of the same recall problems that most of the persecutions dirt bag witnesses were having. He didn’t recall certain things that she felt were important and in fact Officer Briggs had even driven by the Carson property that morning before court to refresh his recollection. Well she went bonkers at that. She couldn’t wait to get him off the stand after the defense attorneys finished with him.

She is having other witness problems with the likes of Eula Keyes and Linda Burns both admitted thieves and drug users at various times. Things just aren’t going marvelously for ferreira and the jury is aware that. Chortle chortle.

I see that “Junk Science jimmy” (cook) is on the stand. There was a movie out sometime back called “Million Dollar Baby”. Ole jimmy and his boy Cheetah have been busy ripping the taxpayers off trying to prove his junk science. We know that this glorified cell phone salesman does not have a college degree and yet he is an alleged expert in Verizon sales. It appears that he is trying to live up to the title of that movie and he refuses at this point to tell exactly how much he’s ripped the taxpayers off for. Update: AS OF MAY 2018 THE FIGURE IS $349,000 +.

The DA had a hard time finding ole jimmy and Cheetah for the trial. Word has it that they had to drag jimmy and Cheetah screaming off the beach in Aruba from that fabulous vacation Stanislaus County taxpayers paid for. Too many piña colada’s and Long Island iced teas I guess. Chortle chortle!!

I’m going to insert here an article regarding how fantastic of an expert ole jimmy is from a case in Santa Clara County in which defense attorney Mark Geragos made a fool out of him.

Cook, a former AT&T field representative who now trains law-enforcement officials on analyzing wireless devices, presented the jury in Zumot’s murder-arson trial Friday with detailed spreadsheets listing all calls and text messages made and received by Zumot and Schipsi, including ones they exchanged between themselves.

He also produced a series of maps illustrating the coverage areas of the towers the two cell phones used between the evening of Oct. 14 and the evening of Oct. 15.

Cook’s testimony was instantly disputed by Zumot’s attorney Mark Geragos, who produced his own AT&T records and argued that the data Cook relied on doesn’t actually exist. Geragos showed the jury the AT&T report listing the call data from the two phones. For the three phone calls in which the two phones appeared to be traveling together, the fields that normally display data for cell towers were blank.

Geragos blasted Cook’s findings and told him to produce the AT&T report on which he based his conclusions. When Cook couldn’t produce that report, Geragos pointed out repeatedly that the numbers Cook was showing the jurors was an Excel spreadsheet that Cook himself had put together — not raw data from the company.

“There isn’t a single record from AT&T that has this cell-tower data,” Geragos said during his cross-examination.

Cook said that while the data was missing in this report, he requested more information from AT&T later. He said all the data he used in his analysis came from AT&T. He also said that he had not read any police reports relating to this case.

Here is a comment made in the local media:

You must not have been paying attention to the truth that was said today in court. Well, you did but you don’t care for the truth. Mr. Cook was caught in a lie! Point blank, that’s the truth. He was asked, ” did you make up these spreadsheets” and his answer was YES. Yes, with the look of shame and embarrassment because he was caught.

You did not like the outcome of today’s BLOW to the da’s fabricated case so now you want to take it out on the reporter, for simply doing his job, reporting what happen.

Remember, the truth will always prevail!
GLORY TO GOD!!!

For those of you citizens who have not been in court, I am adding a picture of ole Jimmy for your information. I was told that this picture shows Jimmy proudly holding up the new bag of money for being salesman of the year at that no name cell phone company. I know he’s proud and we’re proud of him. Chortle chortle!!!

So according to the Palo Alto Times, ole Jimmy seemed to have been caught in a lie in a murder trial in Santa Clara County. Making up his own charts and trying to get those to fly. To quote the Palo Alto Times reporter, ole Jimmy is a “former AT&T field representative” who now trains law-enforcement officials… The nagging question is does jimmy junior (Cheetah) go along while he’s training the law enforcement officials to answer the questions that daddy can’t? Don’t know, don’t really care. Just saying…

As I have said before numerous times, the majority of all of our law enforcement personnel are hard-working, dedicated, trustworthy and put their lives on the line each day and night protecting us. Bless those and keep them safe. But for those few that are egregiously and criminally abusing the justice system for their own vendetta and personal gain in the DA’s office need to be weeded out before more people’s lives are ruined because of an agenda driven retaliation.

I think it’s time that citizens of Stanislaus County begin to stand up and call for this horrendous miscarriage of justice to end. We need to gather strong and united and demonstrate in front of the District Attorney’s Office and make sure all of the major news networks are present. Maybe with this type of pressure, the Board of Supervisors may remember that they are elected and not appointed and elections do happen. As you know Supervisor Jim Demartini said in public that at least $3 million had already been spent on a case the district attorney cannot win.

That figure has now escalated to somewhere in the neighborhood of $4-$5 million. I think Jim Demartini should caucus with his fellow supervisors and convince them to stop pouring money down the drain and have the district attorney dismiss these charges against the Carson 8.

If they got ole Jimmy and Jimmy Junior who have produced no evidence of guilt of any of the Carson 8, off the stand and out of town, the DA could cut her losses which if this farce continues, may exceed a half million paid to them alone. There used to be a saying during the depression, which I missed by the way, by Herbert Hoover that said – “A chicken in every pot and a car in every garage”. At the rate we are paying the Cook team, ole Jimmy doesn’t want chicken but wants pressed duck under glass, a glass of Domaine Georges & Christophe Roumier Musigny Grand Cru 1990 (Google it) and not a car but a RR Silver Cloud for Cheetah and himself. If this farce isn’t stopped soon, he may get his wish.
So let’s think about getting a demonstration together to show the Board of Supervisors and the world that we are tired of this lack of judicial wisdom, personal agenda driven vendettas, the egregious drain of wasted money and the destruction of human lives.

I understand that when the transcripts for this travesty of justice are printed, the opening line is going to be “Once Upon a Time”. Just saying…

So this point it appears that the defense attorneys here are exposing some of his ill-conceived charts and other propaganda he is trying to sell the jury. But I think they are keeping their wallets and purses closed and not buying into his fairytale.

I’m just going to throw in here again the fact that the FLADAGATOR has not once graced the court with the honor of her presence. Chortle chortle. Judge Zuniga even commented on that fact during the preliminary hearing.You would think that the prosecution Queen Bee would be all over this case taking credit for what a great job her staff is doing. But no!!! WHAT IS SHE AFRAID OF? WHAT IS SHE ASHAMED OF? WHAT IS SHE WORRIED ABOUT? We may never know unless she wants to tell us during her going away party in November 2018 when John Mayne takes over as an honest, ethical, principled, moral and truthful Dist. Atty. GO JOHN MAYNE!!! Drain the swamp John!!!

I have so much more to write and in my next commentary I will again show that ferreira is a bald faced liar as proven by a brave deputy public defender during the preliminary hearing. Some of you that have read some of my prior commentaries will know what I’m talking about but I’m going to bring it back again for those that had not read prior commentaries.

So I will be back soon, very soon with my next commentary.

The PAC called “Modesto 2000” was formed back in 2000 with the specific intent to “Oppose Carmen Sabatino”.
It was recently renewed on July 12th 2018.  It lists $10,421.00 in debt (all of which are from 3 personal loans from George Petrulakis.
George is listed as the treasurer and Jim Demartini is listed as the assistant treasurer.
One has to wonder… is this PAC just a place to park money, or are they genuinely concerned that Former Mayor Carmen Sabatino might run for office again.
As a nation we blinked. Donald Trump’s people told anybody who would listen, Donny’s inauguration had the largest turnout for any president in U.S. history, the crowds were overjoyed with patriotic jubilance. When asked about this seemingly small and understandable mistake, we were given “fake news.” Donny’s aids and playmates told the nation that they were referring to this new record turnout for an inauguration as “alternative facts.” They said this to our faces, and we blinked. We did not stand up for the simple truth from the start. So how can we expect the truth now?

The same people are feeding us the same alternative facts through the same means – the leader of your country. This man obviously has never heard the old saying, “Don’t let your alligator mouth overload your hummingbird anus.” That fact alone could cost this nation dearly.

For the last three weeks, I have driven to my daughter’s house to mow her yard. To get to her house, I drive on Hashem Drive which borders Naraghi Lake. For the same three weeks, there has been a hot tub cover laying in the gutter on Hashem. I find it hard to believe there hasn’t been a police officer, community officer, city inspector, city street sweeper or even a city council member who hasn’t seen this eyesore or potential road hazard and resolved the problem.

How long are we going to have to put up with the homeless garbage problem? For people that have no place to live they sure do collect a lot of garbage. What do they need all that stuff for anyway if they have no place to put it? I work hard for money and pay taxes, but my opinion doesn’t not matter. If people say anything we are considered to have no sympathy for them, but it only goes so far.

No one has sympathy for me if I cant pay my bills or if my utilities are turned off. If I was to ask for assistance, I would be laughed at. Just because they are homeless they should be able to make a mess everywhere they go? Not to mention they (relieve themselves) everywhere. The average person doesn’t want to look at that every day! How much longer is the working class going to be able to keep it together for the sake of everyone else?

Re “Yosemite colleges faculty OK two-day strike” (Front Page, Nov. 18): The Yosemite College District and their faculty have been in negotiations for three years. Those deadlocked negotiations have become a pitched battle with the professors authorizing a strike, the district threatening termination if they do, and now a two-day strike called to protest that threat. Lost in the conflagration is the point: Dispensing education while giving taxpayers value for their money.

College students save tax dollars because they require fewer government services (welfare, substance-abuse rehab, criminal justice, etc.). And they contribute to the community in many ways – paying taxes on larger incomes; contributing to the success and stability of the community; appreciating and patronizing the arts, contributing to charities; saving for retirement and investing their savings.

Educated people form longer lasting relationships, are more optimistic, civil and courteous. They get regular physical exercise and eat healthier foods living healthier lives. Then they send their children to college. Those who go to college also exercise analytical thinking; read newspapers and books; have a richer appreciation of current events and they vote.

Re “California GOP is dead, sadly” (Page 3B, Nov. 15): Stanislaus County is changing but change comes slowly. It doesn’t happen with a single decision or a single vote. A few years ago there were more Republicans than Democrats here (check the registration figures). Now it’s the other way around. It happened slowly and it’s still happening. California Congressional District 10 just elected its first Democrat in years. A former legislative leader for Republicans statewide, Kirstin Olsen, recognized the change in California and wrote about it.

The Democratic Party is a “big tent” party. That means we welcome Republicans and independents and others to change registration and work with us in making healthcare better for all. Join us in building our local jobs base. Join us in improving education for our children. The future needs your efforts along with all of ours. Become a registered Democrat and join one of our many Democratic Clubs or start a new one. Change the present, join the future. Move forward.

Many older people in the past could not afford to pay for sophisticated hearing aids that adjusted for their loss of ability to hear high frequencies. Hence, they could not understand many conversations. That is changing rapidly as a result of a law passed in 2017 by Congress. You can now buy, for $200 or less, hearing aids that make it possible to understand high frequencies. That will solve the hearing problems of many, if not most, seniors.

There’s no need to pay thousands of dollars for hearing aids. For several years there have been cheap hearing aids that amplify all sound frequencies. They do not work for those who need to selectively amplify high frequencies.

The new, inexpensive hearing aids do just that. They are working for me at age 95 and will probably work for many others. Intricate, complicated electronics have become very cheap, but until now the public has not benefited in this area because they were required to go through a hearing professional. That is no longer required except in special circumstances, no matter what you are told. The era of high-priced hearing aids for common, age-related hearing difficulties is over, and the public needs to know.

I have no interest in writing this note other than to help poor seniors realize they can now afford effective hearing aids.

Re “To the mother of the man I couldn’t save” (Page 1B, Nov. 18): Trauma surgeon Jacques Mather writes a compiling story about yet another gunshot victim for whom he cannot find the words to sooth the anguish suffered by loved ones. In my law enforcement career, I too found it confounding to express my sorrow – whether for an accidental overdose, auto accident, suicide, stabbing or gunshot. Death is death no matter how it is inflicted, and it is always worse when it is our children.

Notably, there are more deaths caused by auto accidents per year (41,000 in 2017) compared to 32,000 gun deaths (including 19,000 suicides) in 2016; the CDC reports 200,000 have died from opiate overdose since 1999.

Writing the article was likely a cathartic release for Dr. Mather, but limiting gun violence to a single solution, i.e. “restricting the use of guns,” won’t work either. Maryland, where he works, already has a rigorous gun-control program, similar to California’s. The weak link is the lenient penalty for violations of gun laws. Penalties need to be increased by three to four times and charged as a consecutive crime. We have similar charges and penalties in California, but they are not strict enough.

Thank you to the voters in Stanislaus County for your confidence and trust in electing me to be your next superintendent of schools. I am humbled by your support and will do my best to serve the students, teachers, and parents in our community. My pledge to the people of this county, to the county’s 25 school districts, to the teachers and staff at our many schools, large and small, is to act thoughtfully, to listen to concerns, and to work in partnership with our districts, teachers, administrators and parents.

Tom Changnon has been a great superintendent for Stanislaus County Office of Education. I appreciate Tom’s support and his example of service. I want to give special thanks to my wife, Alison. She is my best friend and strongest campaign supporter. I also thank all those who campaigned for me and spoke on my behalf.

I’d like to recognize Shannon Sanford for her efforts in this campaign and wish her well as she continues to lead the Gratton School District.

I look forward to working to ensure our students are given the best options for success.

While we wait for a final vote count, I want to express my appreciation to the voters who supported me and to the family, friends and neighbors who gave so much of their time and efforts to our campaign – whether walking, calling, hosting, donating or publicly endorsing.

I am very proud of the broad, bipartisan support I received from so many people and organizations I respect – from sheriff’s deputies and home-care workers, to small business owners and local community leaders.

We have a remarkable community, and the opportunity to meet so many people and listen to their hopes and concerns for their families, our town and our county was rewarding. I have been truly inspired by their hard work, vision, struggles and commitment to Modesto and the region.

Regardless of the final result, I will continue to work to improve the community I love, trying to solve the problems we face, and helping make Stanislaus County the best it can be.

As a nation we blinked. Donald Trump’s people told anybody who would listen that Donny’s inauguration had the largest turnout for any president in U.S. history, that the crowds were overjoyed with patriotic jubilation. When asked about this seemingly small understandable mistake, we were told we believe in “fake news.” Donny’s aids and playmates told the nation that their insistence of record turnout were based on “alternative facts.” They said that to our faces and we blinked; we did not stand up for the simple truth from the start. So how can we expect the truth now?

The same people, the same kind of alternative facts are being fed to us through the same means. Trump obviously has never heard the old saying, “Don’t let your alligator mouth overload your hummingbird butt.”

On November 16, Modesto City Schools mandated that all students attend school, despite toxic air quality conditions. Many believe this decision was made purely in the interest of saving time, money and hassle. Since when has contentment and ease been more important than a child’s health?

The air quality was so dangerous that it peaked at 367 on the air quality index. We can’t have children breathe air that can result in complications such as immune, respiratory and neurological issues (EPA). Students like myself have obviously recognized this issue and made it clear they did not want to attend school. A petition, started on the 15th, to cancel school for all Modesto City Schools has already garnered over 8,000 signatures in just two days.

Some may argue we simply want a day off of school. But that day would be taken off our vacation. Students are willing to sacrifice a vacation day for their health. Why didn’t the district sacrifice for our health, too?

I was stunned to learn a permit allowing unlimited water use has been issued for three months (Oct.-Dec.) for a homeowner to lay new sod. Good grass was dug up and replaced. Since then, the owner has been watering seven days a week, three times a day even though the sod has been in for a month and is now well established. It has even been mowed, but the constant watering continues.

Modesto is constantly whining about water conservation, yet they issue permits when people should be trying to replace as much yard as possible with products that do not require the water grass does. Let’s all check into getting a permit.

Democrats have won control of the House and will soon be painting it a beautiful patriotic blue. After two long years, democracy will finally be coming back to America. But a lot of democratic values have to be taken back and restored. Americans want their pride, integrity, decency, honesty and patriotism all given back to them. This is not 1936 Germany and most of America does not want a Fuhrer storming around their country performing at daily “rallies” inciting rabid crowds to “Lock her up!” or “Build the wall!” or “Drain the swamp!”

The sense of decency missing for two years will, with time, reappear. Hopefully, Republicans will see the light and help Democrats achieve this goal.

All dictators eventually fall. Donald Trump’s time is coming. Historians will scratch their heads trying to figure out what led decent people to turn against their country and their own interests and support this nationalistic hater of democracy.

As Don Meredith used to sing on Monday Night Football, “Turn out the lights, the party’s over.” For Jeff “Denim” Denham, the party is finally over. It’s really got to be a relief for him. No more having to wear his old blue jeans pretending he’s a farmer. No more sitting on the back bench in Congress. No more having to hide from voters. Ol’ Jeff can now finally relax.

We will soon have a new congressman, Josh Harder. Someone willing to talk to voters, willing to listen to voters and someone who know the issues that matter. Josh is off to DC to fight the “Trumpinator.” With all the other new faces in Congress, they will make life harder for the “orange doughboy.”

Should we have a “Welcome Home Jeff” parade? That would be nice. We could shower him with almond hulls as he drives by. Maybe we could take up a collection and buy him some new blue jeans. Poor Jef “Denim,” we hardly knew ye. I guess Jeff was too busy avoiding us. Party on Jeff!

American GI Forum and the Dia de Los Muertos committee would like to thank the many sponsors for the donations that made it possible to hold the 3rd annual Dia de Los Muertos event on Oct. 20. Our Valley community enjoyed this 100 percent free event to celebrate and share their Mexican heritage in a family friendly environment.

Thank you to all who volunteered to make this event a success and thank you to the city of Modesto for allowing us to turn Tenth Street Plaza into Plaza de Los Muertos. And, last but not least, thank you to all who attended our event. See you next year!

Be careful not to drink and drive.

It’s holiday party time! Despite numerous driving distractions, like cell phone use, I remind people to not drive drunk. My life changed after a drunken driver hit me when I was 16 in 1992. I was in a 100-day coma with severe injuries. For seven months, I stayed in hospitals in Stockton and San Ramon and then had 17 months of therapy. My life is difficult every day. My speech is not clear and my gait is abnormal. I also cannot drive and my hearing is damaged.

An open bar is often a big perk at a holiday bash. Partygoers enjoying drinks heed my words: You can be drunk even if you’re not slurring your words. Driving skills are damaged before intoxication is obvious. Few know just exactly how many drinks equal “one too many.” A driver who drank no alcohol must give drinkers a ride home. Driving drunk can lead to an arrest, a crash or death. You can never replace a person or the lifelong pain of injuries. Take it from one who knows.

Re “Stanislaus clerk: Everyone able to vote; poll watchers disagree” (Front Page, Nov. 8): I worked this election at a precinct polling place in Ceres on Whitmore Avenue. My impression of “poll watchers” is they are primarily fault-finders intent on crying “foul.” Election day is too late to do voter outreach or correct issues with the voting process.

The implication seems to be there was some underlying voter suppression. Not so. Any issues with voters being unable to cast ballots was due to equal parts inexperienced and poorly supported poll workers and uninformed, unengaged voters. The elections office did its best with the resources at its disposal.

If activists are truly concerned about voter turnout or voter suppression they need to do a better job getting voters engaged and educated about the election process. Given the amount of money each party raises for elections, there is no reason we can’t have a better elections process and better educated voters.

Chaos and complications create opportunity. Unscrupulous people will take advantage wherever they can to gain power and influence. The election process we have is the one we want. If we want something different, we need to make it happen. Voters: Pay attention and stay engaged.

officially the City of Modesto, is the county seat and largest city of Stanislaus County, California, United States. With a population of approximately 201,165 at the 2010 census, it is the 18th largest city in the state of California and forms part of the Modesto–Merced combined Statistical Area. The Modesto Census County Division, which includes the cities of Ceres and Riverbank, had a population of 312,842 as of 2010.[14]

Modesto is located in the Central Valley, 90 miles (140 km) north of Fresno, 40 miles (64 km) north of Merced, California, 92 miles (148 km) east of San Francisco, 68 miles (109 km) south of the state capital of Sacramento, 66 miles (106 km) west of Yosemite National Park, and 24 miles (39 km) south of Stockton. Modesto has been honored as a Tree City USA numerous times.[15] It is surrounded by rich farmland; Stanislaus County ranks sixth among California counties in farm production.[16] Led by milk, almonds, chickens, walnuts, and corn silage, the county grossed nearly $3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011. The farm-to-table movement plays a central role in Modesto living as in the Central Valley.

Filmmaker George Lucas, who was born in Modesto, graduated from Thomas Downey High School in 1962 and attended Modesto Junior College, immortalized the city in his award-winning 1973 film American Graffiti. Although it was not actually shot in Modesto, the film portrayed the spirit of cruising and friendship on Modesto's 10th and 11th Streets in 1962, and inspired a revival of interest in 1950s pop culture, including the TV show Happy Days and its spin-offs.

The city's annual Architectural Festival honors Modesto's history as a testing ground for mid-century modern architecture during the 1940s and '50s. Modesto's mid-century buildings have been featured four times in Museum of Modern Art publications.

The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011, which interviews 1,000 participants about their jobs, finances, physical health, emotional state of mind and communities, ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed.[17] In December 2009, Forbes ranked Modesto 48th out of 100 among "Best Bang-for-the-Buck Cities". In this ranking, Modesto ranked 8th in housing affordability and travel time but also ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures.[18]

Modesto is tThe City of Modesto was originally a stop on the railroad connecting Sacramento to Los Angeles. When Modesto was founded in 1870, it was to be named Ralston after financier William C. Ralston. Ralston's modesty prompted him to ask that another name be found, and the town was named Modesto in recognition of his modesty.

Modesto's population was over 1,000 residents in 1884. With fields of grain, a nearby Tuolumne River for grain barges, and railroad traffic, the town grew. Irrigation water came from dams installed in the foothills, and irrigated fields of vegetables and fruit and nut trees flourished. By 1900, Modesto's population was over 4,500. During World War II, the area provided canned goods, powdered milk, and eggs for the US armed forces and Allied forces. For the next few decades, Modesto's population grew about two percent per year to over 100,000 in 1980, and over 200,000 in 2001.

The city's official motto, "Water Wealth Contentment Health," is emblazoned on the downtown Modesto Arch, which is featured in local photographs and postcards. The motto was selected in a contest held in 1911, where the winner won $3 as his prize. (The original winner, "Nobody's got Modesto's goat",[19] was later declined by town officials.) Modesto's motto is sometimes spoofed as "The land gets the water, the bankers get the wealth, the cows get contentment, and the farmers get the health."[20]
The home of Gallo Family Winery, the largest privately owned winery in the world. The winery was ranked #14 on Glassdoor's 2018 Best Places to Work.
Modesto is known for the following tourist attractions and historical sites.


The McHenry Mansion

Gallo Center for the Arts
McHenry Mansion – Built in the early 1880s by Robert McHenry, a local rancher and banker. The mansion is included on the National Register of Historic Places. Tours are given.
McHenry Museum – Across the street from the McHenry Mansion. It is filled with tidbits from Modesto's history.
George Lucas Plaza – American Graffiti-inspired bronze statue made in honor of Modesto filmmaker George Lucas, located at Five Points (the intersections of McHenry Avenue, "J" Street, 17th Street, Downey and Needham).
Gallo Center for the Arts – Center for the performing arts opened in 2007 and is located in downtown Modesto at 1000 "I" Street.
Downtown Modesto – Known for having a variety of restaurants and night life, including 3 weekly farmer's markets. It also hosts a multi-venue Art Walk year-round on the third Thursday of the month, free to view with maps available.
The State Theatre – Dating back to the 1920s, it was recently renovated and serves as a local performance arts center and as a theater specializing in independent and foreign films.
John Thurman Field – The stadium renovated several years ago, the home of the Modesto Nuts baseball team (single "A" affiliate of the Seattle Mariners team).
Graceada Park neighborhood – An area of representative old homes (circa 1920s and earlier) with streets lined with large city-planted shade trees and a series of parks, a bandshell and other amenities. The name Graceada is based on two old local ladies that helped promote the idea of a park, Grace and Ada.
Modesto is served by one of the busiest rail corridors in the country. The Amtrak San Joaquin makes eight daily stops on the route between Oakland and Bakersfield, and four stops daily on the route between Sacramento and Bakersfield.

Air
Modesto is served by the Modesto City-County Airport that lies east of California State Route 99 within the city limits. SkyWest Airlines (operating as United Express) provided air service to San Francisco International Airport, however commercial service stopped in June 2014.[21] The airport is used for manufacturing and the shipping industries throughout California and the United States.

Highways and roads
Interstate 5 and California State Route 99 provide major highway access to Modesto. California State Route 132 links the city to Interstate 580, providing commuter access to highways into the Bay Area. California State Route 108 connects to Oakdale, California and east to the foothills. The city has added many roundabouts in an effort to ease traffic congestion within the town with varying degrees of success.

Public transit
Three public transit systems serve Modesto: Modesto Area Express (MAX), StaRT, and the San Joaquin Regional Transit District along the northern edge of the city on McHenry Avenue. MAX is the local system with additional connections to the Altamont Corridor Express train station in Lathrop and the Dublin/Pleasanton BART station. MAX also provides a paratransit "dial-a-ride" service which specifically caters to seniors and the disabled. It is open to the general public only during certain times.[22] StaRT connects Modesto to the county's other populated centers. Modesto also will be served by the future California High Speed Rail.

The large industrial region south and east of the city is served by the Modesto and Empire Traction Company, a 5-mile (8.0 km) short line railroad, with a web of industry tracks and many customers.[citation needed]

At one time, Modesto was the operational center of the Tidewater Southern Railway, which had its main line down the center of Ninth Street, a major north-south street. A city ordinance passed by the city council kept electric power lines over this section of street activated long after the railroad had converted to steam power. In 2000, the last trains ran down Ninth Street. Now the railroad (owned by the Union Pacific Railroad since 1983) no longer passes through Modesto.

Geography
Climate
Modesto has a semi-arid climate (BSh in the Köppen climate classification) It has mild winters with moderate rainfall and long, hot, dry summers. Average January temperatures range from 56 °F (13 °C) in the day to 40 °F (4 °C) at night. Most of the rainfall occurs during the winter and the annual total is 13.2 inches (335 mm). The city does not have a full storm sewer system, many streets flood during winter rain storms.

Average July temperatures range from 95 °F (35 °C) in the day to 63 °F (17 °C) at night. During the summer months there can be multiple days in a row with high temperatures exceeding 100 °F (~38 °C). This can pose health risks for people with weak constitutions or who ignore the dangers of heat stroke. Onshore breezes (locally known as the "delta breeze") moderate these high temperatures somewhat, with cooler air coming in after 8 or 9 PM on summer nights.
Although the city is located on the Tuolumne River and near the Stanislaus River, it has no operating port for oceangoing ships due to the shallow depths of these rivers, and also due to a small dam on the Tuolumne River near Highway 99. In Modesto there is also a small creek aptly named Dry Creek, which although badly polluted by agricultural runoff, is adjacent to several parks in Modesto. Most of the rivers and streams are otherwise not accessible to public use or view due to fences and private property rights. There are no public boat ramps or docks within the city limits. Although summertime brings high temperatures, swimming is prohibited by local ordinance in rivers, creeks, and the many irrigation canals. Rivers and lakes near Waterford are wide enough to be accessible for a kayak, or small motorboat, and there are several points of public access. This access was given as part of a government plan when hydroelectric power dams were installed upstream for valuable flood control, irrigation, and electric power generation. The nearest large open seaport is the Port of Stockton, used for oceangoing ships that transport goods, particularly cement, fertilizer, and agricultural products, from California to overseas.

Economy and infrastructure
Industry
Modesto has a large agricultural industry which is based on the fertile farmland surrounding the city. Modesto is home to the largest winery in the world: E & J Gallo Winery. The Gallo Glass Company, a company of Gallo Winery, is the largest wine bottle manufacturing company in the world. The company provides thousands of office and manufacturing jobs to Stanislaus County residents. Other major privately owned companies based in Modesto include Foster Farms Dairy, Royal Robbins, international award winner Fiscalini Cheese, Sciabica Olive Oil, Acme Construction, Aderholt Specialty, and 511 Tactical (formerly a part of Royal Robbins, a United States brand of clothing consisting of uniforms and tactical equipment for military). A cannery downtown produces food which is usually shipped to Sacramento and Fresno for transfer to rail or ship. Ceres has a few cereal and snack factories in the area. There are several small steelworking companies in Modesto. In mid-2008, a number of road projects were being constructed, repaved or repaired, with an estimated total cost of nearly $120,000,000.
Rates of both violent crimes and property crimes are higher in Modesto than the state average.[25] Of particular note is that Modesto ranks among the top car theft cities in the US. As of 2012 Modesto ranked number 1 for car theft rate per 100,000 people,[26] although they dropped to number 3 in 2013, behind Bakersfield and Fresno[27] Modesto is also home to many street gangs. The Stanislaus County Gang Intelligence Task Force estimates there to be 5,000 to 10,000 gang members.[28]

Transportation
Amtrak intercity rail is provided by San Joaquin services directly at Modesto station on the east side of the city.

A separate Altamont Corridor Express commuter rail station is planned to be constructed for service in 2023.[29]

Planning and environmental
In the late 1980s Modesto embarked on an update to the city's general plan pursuant to requirements of the State of California. The result was a comprehensive evaluation of alternative population and land use projections along with associated environmental impact analysis. Some of the environmental factors technically assessed were air quality, water quality, environmental noise, soil contamination and visual impacts.

Much of the soils in Modesto are classified as part of the Hanford series: (HbpA) fine sandy loam, moderately deep over silt.[30] These soils are well-drained, moderately coarse-textured soils derived from alluvium from granitic rock. The Hanford soils are important for the production of a wide variety of irrigated orchard, field, and truck crops.

Vicinity watercourses include the Stanislaus River, the Tuolumne River and Dry Creek empties into the Tuolumne River. Area groundwater, which is the principal source of water supply in the city,[31] has been historically impaired in a fashion that is spatially variable. Water from the nearby Modesto Resovoir is now used to augment city water. In various parts of the city and its perimeter the following water pollutants have occurred from time to time: nitrates, dibromochloromethane, volatile organics, salinity, total dissolved solids and other pesticides.[32] Each of these contaminants is not present citywide.

The EPA rates air quality in Modesto as a 23 on a scale to 100 (higher is better), making Modesto an unhealthy place to live for those with breathing difficulties. This is based on ozone alert days and number of pollutants in the air. In May 2010, Forbes magazine, in association with the American Lung Association, indicated that Modesto was one of the top 25 most polluted cities in the U.S.[33]

Downtown revitalization
As of the 2000s, downtown Modesto (DOMO) has been thoroughly modernized, including new attractions such as Gallo Center for the Arts and the new Downtown Plaza adjacent to Modesto Centre Plaza. Downtown Modesto has lost some of its old-time flavor with the loss of the Hotel Covell, the incredible art deco Strand Theatre, and the Sears building, but it has improved traffic flow considerably.

The historic streets of 10th and 11th streets that were the original locations of the cruising featured in American Graffiti have been designated by the City of Modesto as the Historic Cruise Route. This is now a tourist walk with information about Modesto's music, car and Graffiti culture.

In 2014, the Walk of Fame was launched on the Historic Cruise Route with markers celebrating classic legends like George Lucas, Gene Winfield Bart Bartoni and others. This is both an attraction for tourists and locals alike. (Many of these have been made into Pokestops in the popular real-time game Pokemon Go.)

Classic Community Murals was launched by local Modesto magazine ModestoView and the Peer Recovery Art Center to create a series of large scale murals celebrating the Modesto Classic Graffiti heritage. Many of these are on the Cruise Route.

New business incentives have been created to enhance facades, signage, and permitting. A promenade is being designed to create a special entertainment zone along the corridor between the Modesto Centre Plaza and the Gallo Center for the Arts and the adjacent core streets of 10th, 11th and J Streets. There is now free wi-fi in the 10th Street Plaza courtesy of Fire2Wire.

Entertainment and culture
The Modesto Nuts Minor League Baseball Club of the class A California League is the main attraction for locals between Easter and Labor Day. The Nuts are the Single A affiliate of the Seattle Mariners and play 70 home games each season.

For 67 years, Modesto was a hotbed for track and field competition as host of the Modesto Relays each May, sponsored most of the years by local produce company S&W Foods. The creation and lifetime project of meet director Tom Moore, 30 world records were set at the meet held at Modesto Junior College.

In the past 10 years, Modesto has hosted many music festivals such as SummerFest, the Downtown summer concert series, featuring Chris Isaak, Hootie & the Blowfish, The Doobie Brothers and Styx.

X-Fest, deriving from its real name Xclamation Festival, is a 21 and over music festival in downtown Modesto. Starting in 2000, X-Fest has evolved into a large outdoor event stretching 15 blocks and featuring the world's largest disco which covers four blocks on its own. In 2008 X-Fest featured 50 bands and a crowd of 15,000 people. Much of the profits end up in local non-profit charities. Some business owners and citizens of Modesto complain of rowdy and often drunk Mardi Gras atmosphere exhibited at X-fest. Events like these may have helped propel Modesto to be ranked, in Feb. 2010 by Men's Health magazine, as the 12th drunkest city in America, based on alcohol-related deaths, DUI and other arrests. The last X-fest occurred in Modesto in 2015.

Summers in Modesto are also marked by the revival of American Graffiti, the 1973 film written and directed by Modesto native George Lucas. Lucas' film paid homage to teenage life in 1962 based on his own experiences growing up in the city of Modesto. The city council refused to let the film be shot in Modesto, so he was forced to make the film elsewhere. The city has since realized the importance of its connection to the award-winning film, and the city is preparing new tourist attractions and events to welcome Graffiti tourists. The Modesto Convention and Visitors bureau report that the leading request for information is American Graffiti-related. The annual festival, Graffiti Summer, celebrates this event and lasts the entire month of June, attracting thousands of visitors and car enthusiasts along with hundreds of classic and antique cars.

Located in downtown Modesto is the locally iconic State Theater, one of the many hot spots for music acts and independent films.

Downtown Modesto hosts a monthly Art Walk, with local artists displaying art for sale, artist demos, local gallery shows, in a multi-venue map self-guided tour. Downtown Modesto Third Thursday Art Walk venues include local galleries, nonprofits, restaurants and other local businesses; each featuring local artists 5 to 9 PM. Some stops include musicians from Modesto's vibrant music scene. Maps can be picked up at local businesses, and Downtown Improvement District office.

Downtown Modesto is also home of the Modesto Historic Cruise Route on 10th and 11th St, the Legends of the Cruise Walk of Fame, and the Classic Community Mural series of large scale art celebrating the American Graffiti history.

Music and performing arts
The Modesto Symphony Orchestra, which finds its home at the Gallo Center, held their first performance when Modesto had a population of 17,000 in 1931 and continues to be a staple in the community.[34] Not to be outdone by the Symphony, MoBand (Modesto Band of Stanislaus County), established in 1919, is one of the oldest, continuously performing bands in the U.S.[35] The group performs a free 6-week summer concert-in-the-park series with its 130 volunteer musicians.

Modesto is also home to Townsend Opera, founded in 1983 by the late Modesto-born opera singer Buck Townsend, and Modesto Performing Arts, as well as the Gallo Center for the Arts.[36] Modesto is also home to the area's leading professional ballet company, Central West Ballet.

Demographics
Historical population
Census	Pop.		%±
1880	1,693		—
1890	2,402		41.9%
1900	2,024		−15.7%
1910	4,034		99.3%
1920	9,241		129.1%
1930	13,842		49.8%
1940	16,379		18.3%
1950	17,389		6.2%
1960	36,585		110.4%
1970	61,712		68.7%
1980	106,963		73.3%
1990	164,730		54.0%
2000	188,856		14.6%
2010	201,165		6.5%
Est. 2017	214,221	[9]	6.5%
U.S. Decennial Census[37]
2010
The 2010 United States Census[38] reported that Modesto had a population of 201,165. The population density was 5,423.4 people per square mile (2,094.0/km²). The racial makeup of Modesto was 130,833 (65.0%) White, 8,396 (4.2%) African American, 2,494 (1.2%) Native American, 13,557 (6.7%) Asian (1.5% Filipino, 1.3% Asian Indian, 1.2% Cambodian, 0.7% Chinese, 0.6% Vietnamese, 0.5% Laotian, 0.2% Japanese, 0.2% Korean, 0.1% Hmong, 0.1% Pakistani), 1,924 (1.0%) Pacific Islander, 31,244 (15.5%) from other races, and 12,717 (6.3%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 71,381 persons (35.5%): 30.8% Mexican, 0.7% Puerto Rican, 0.6% Salvadoran, 0.5% Spaniard, 0.4% Spanish, 0.3% Nicaraguan, and 0.2% Guatemalan. Non-Hispanic Whites were 49.4% of the population in 2010,[39] down from 83.1% in 1980.[40]

The Census reported that 198,210 people (98.5% of the population) lived in households, 1,189 (0.6%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 1,766 (0.9%) were institutionalized.

There were 69,107 households, out of which 27,152 (39.3%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 33,230 (48.1%) were married couples living together, 10,774 (15.6%) had a female householder with no husband present, 4,904 (7.1%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 5,177 (7.5%) unmarried. 15,887 households (23.0%) were made up of individuals and 6,221 (9.0%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.87. There were 48,908 families (70.8% of all households); the average family size was 3.38.

The population was spread out with 54,012 people (26.8%) under the age of 18, 20,838 people (10.4%) aged 18 to 24, 53,116 people (26.4%) aged 25 to 44, 49,691 people (24.7%) aged 45 to 64, and 23,508 people (11.7%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 34.2 years. For every 100 females, there were 95.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.5 males.

There were 75,044 housing units at an average density of 2,023.2 per square mile (781.2/km²), of which 39,422 (57.0%) were owner-occupied, and 29,685 (43.0%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 2.8%; the rental vacancy rate was 9.1%. 112,065 people (55.7% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 86,145 people (42.8%) lived in rental housing units.

According to the 2011 American Community Survey 5-Year estimate, the median income for a household in the city was $49,852, and the median income for a family was $56,629.[41] Males had a median income of $47,473 versus $37,629 for females. The per capita income for the city was $22,886. About 14.9% of families and 18.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 27.3% of those under age 18 and 9.5% of those age 65 or over.

In September 2010, the UCLA Center for Health Policy Research released a study indicating that 32% of the population was obese vs. a statewide average obesity rate of 22.7%. Poverty was one of the factors listed as contributing to the high obesity rates.[citation needed]

2000
As of the census[42] of 2000, there were 188,856 people, 64,959 households, and 46,640 families residing in the city. The population density was 5,277.3 people per square mile (2,037.4/km²). There were 67,179 housing units at an average density of 1,877.2 per square mile (724.7/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 69.6% White, 25.6% Hispanic or Latino, 4.0% African American, 1.2% Native American, 6.0% Asian, 0.5% Pacific Islander.

There were 64,959 households out of which 38.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.5% were married couples living together, 14.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.2% were non-families. 22.5% of all households were made up of individuals and 8.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.86 and the average family size was 3.36.

In the city, the population was spread out with 30.1% under the age of 18, 9.6% from 18 to 24, 28.9% from 25 to 44, 20.3% from 45 to 64, and 11.1% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 33 years. For every 100 females, there were 94.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 89.7 males.

Government
See also: Government of Stanislaus County, California
Local government
Modesto is governed under a council-manager system.[3] The Mayor is elected by the entire city. The six members of the city council are elected from districts by the voters within the respective district.

According to the city's most recent Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, the city's various funds had $325.7 million in Revenues, $268.0 million in expenditures, $1,126.9 million in total assets, $322.0 million in total liabilities, and $343.0 million in cash and investments
Residents of Modesto also participate in the Government of Stanislaus County and elections for Stanislaus County Board of Supervisors district 1 as well as the Sheriff-Coroner, District Attorney, Assessor, Auditor-Controller, Treasurer-Tax Collector, and Clerk-Recorder. As of January 2013 these were represented by Supervisor William O'Brien, Sheriff-Coroner Adam Christianson, District Attorney Birgit Fladager, Assessor David Cogdill Sr., Auditor-Controller Lauren Klein, Treasurer-Tax Collector Gordon Ford, and Clerk-Recorder Lee Lundrigan.

Federal and state representation
In the California State Senate, Modesto is split between the 5th Senate District, represented by Democrat Cathleen Galgiani, and the 12th Senate District, represented by Republican Anthony Cannella.[47] In the California State Assembly, Modesto is split between the 12th Assembly District, represented by Republican Heath Flora, and the 21st Assembly District, represented by Democrat Adam Gray.[48]

In the United States House of Representatives, Modesto is in California's 10th congressional district, represented by Republican Jeff Denham.[49]

Education
City schools
Modesto City Schools was established for students in the community in 1871. The current enrollment is approximately 32,000 students. The district operates 23 elementary schools (K-6), four junior high schools (7–8), seven comprehensive high schools (9–12), and an alternative education program that includes an opportunity and continuation school, independent study and adult evening high school. The seventh comprehensive high school, Joseph Gregori High School, was recently completed. Modesto's oldest high school, Modesto High School, also offers an International Baccalaureate program, and is the only high school in Stanislaus County accredited for this program. There are other elementary school districts within and adjacent to the limits of Modesto City Schools that feed into the high schools. They include Sylvan Union (serving the eastern portion of Modesto), Stanislaus Union and Hart-Ransom.

Private schools
Modesto Christian School (K–12), Central Catholic High School, Our Lady of Fatima Catholic School,St. Stanislaus Catholic School, Big Valley Christian School, and Grace Lutheran School are private religious schools located in Modesto.
ULCO Seminary (U.S.A.) has its international headquarters in Modesto.
Higher education
Modesto Junior College is a two-year junior college in Modesto and has over 20,000 students enrolled and 21 inter-collegiate sports teams.
Community Business College, vocational college in Modesto providing vocational training and job placement services to the unemployed with non-profit tuition scholarships. Offers training in medical office, bookkeeping, property management, foreign languages, medical coding and solar technologies.
